TODO Aviron 7
-------------


BUGS

fix issue where when you select certain things, the yellow visual selection rectangle is shifted too far down (the red-flashing LightPost on top of that one building)

fix issue where the white cockpit window triangle is missing the bottom line segment, other 2 are fine, in the Ganymed class ships

................................


POLISH

when thing is focused, some thing-specific debug text will be shown in a certain rectangular portion of the screen (maybe top center); descs of internal state, AI state, etc.

when thing has focus, a 'command key hint' callout bubble is shown for that thing (eg. a ship is focused, and the callout display 'k - extend landing gear, i - retract landing gear' etc), be extremely compact yet readable; toggleable; dynamic/data-driven

make the display mode (W x H) setting more robust/responsive
    asof 2016 June 25 hardcoded to (because known to look right with):
        pygame.display.set_mode(1366,720...)

break up all fn bodies larger than a vim screenful

add a console, only works in debug-mode, for devtesting commands (eg. "add marines 5", etc)

make in-game text font a little larger and easier to read

replace prints with logging

make Thing.event() return (handled, changed), not just changed like now

general: shouldn't pass raw keyboard/mouse input events to every Thing subclass instance's event(self, e) method; instead the Game/State should translate into thing-specific semantic commands like (travel up, travel down, lower landing gear, fire guns, etc.)

switch to using pygame.Rect everywhere, at least for Thing's pos/size

music should either be torn out, or, upgraded and re-enabled

test whether requirements.txt works correctly with 'pip install'

virtualenv-ify

PEP8 and linting

.........................


GAMEPLAY

avatar (or civ) can have a weapon (or not); if avatar has weapon, and he's focused, you can command him to shoot in direction he's facing. the shot flies along and will damage/kill whatever it hits (alien, etc.); when a civ/avatar/marine has a weapon (or not), you can see the difference

you can command focused avatar to enter a nearby parked ship (assuming its doors aren't locked, he's not opposed, etc.); once he's in the ship, you can make the ship takeoff (move up/down) either by directly focusing the ship, or giving the focused avatar command to make the ship do it, either way

you can command focused avatar to enter builing if he's near a door. add a visible door to that building

some ships have missiles, you can see them when mounted; when a missile is launched it becomes a separate Thing in things, and flies/moves on its own. command to make focused ship fire 1 of its missiles. ship can have many missiles

a ship can have escape pods. command to make the ship launch its escape pods, with one passenger/crew inside of each pod. the pod flies away

VVenturius emerges from a portal. "I return from 1903" speech (adapt it for here).

green sarcophagi, standing upright (facing the user)

turn off the base emergency light when all aliens are gone

carrier-type ship. you can see 8 fighters inside it when interior toggled visible. there is a key when focused that makes it launch its fighters

you have 100 btc at start. show your balance on screen

a civ or alien may descend to enter a nearby parked ship. if inside and unopposed by other passengers they may begin "flying it", ascending until off-screen then ceasing

while aliens on the planet a distress beacon will be emitting; the aliens can destroy it or turn it off if they get close to it; while beacon is emitting it will periodically cause an incoming ship full of marines to appear, descending to disembark them. the avatar can also be commanded to turn off or on a beacon, or repair it. it is visibly evident whether a beacon is emitting or not, a red wave pattern represents the emitting

there is a fuel tank on the ground at start; if your avatar is close to a ship and that ship is close to the tank, there's a command to will begin transferring fuel from that tank into the ship's fuel tank

that 1st building can contain cargo of various types (gold, food, salt, iron, weapons, butter, milk, lead, uraniam, etc.). you see the inside, when interior is toggled visible.

some ships when focused you can command them to drop a bomb (while flying); bomb falls down like in RL (with X and Y velocity), then explodes on contact with ground or building or parked ship

marines don't attack aliens by being adjacent and magic; instead they try to stop at edge of gun rangle and shoot them, when they shoot little red laser bolts fly toward the alien and when they touch an alien they damage/kill them.

some ships can have an energy shield on/off; when on it appears as an engulfing line perimeter. v1 just an thick colored ellipse; v2+ can be form-fitting

there's a little ship or vehicle, where if you're guy is in the pilot/driver's seat, then to exit the ship he has to first open/raise the cockpit shell (it animates into open position over time), before he can exit

rnd event: an Orvo will appear in sky, descend down to land on ground, it will unload passengers and/or cargo, and load passengers/cargo, then ascend up until off-screen and disappear

rnd event: 'Space Invaders' appear in sky, look/move like them, they drop bombs which fall down and explode, damaging/killing things

auto turrets that will shoot at hostile ships. versions:
    1. laser turret
    2. bullet turret
    3. missile launcher

hostile ship that drops bombs. they fly/fall each tick. when they hit ground they explode and damage/kill nearby creatures

an object that senses if alien is close, and sets a visible (little red flashing light) and audible alarm (aweet! aweet!)

user can command the focused avatar to embark/disembark ship. and enter/exit buildin. and pickup/drop weapon.

humans look diff while walking

aliens & marines look diff while attacking

cool complex multi-floor building (fort?) that's a nested state machine in terms of its physical and visual state... turrets up/down, gates open/closed, elevator in various vertical positions, alarm siren lights/sounds either on/off, an armory room with visible little white/grey guns on wall racks (that can be taken by civs or marines)... all the mutable parts of this building can be selected and directly controlled by user, or indirectly controlled. building has a jail room which contains an alien in imprisoned state (he can't attack anybody and stands still)... there is a room which is a theatre, it has a 'screen' visible on wall showing a little rectangle bitmap of a famous RL film clip (shrunk down to fit) like StarWars StarTrek etc. one room has a vat of colored liquid. there is a minefield just outside the western perimeter wall

APC. you can select and drive around. can have passengers. aliens cant attack humans inside it. has wheels or treats. if wheels you can see them rotate while vehicle drives

wall pylon -- creatures can't walk past it

key to make your ship captain transfer from inside ship to on ground on foot; while on ground, you can focus him, and issue him commands to walk around left/right, or issue command to re-enter ship

add a new much bigger ship that can take the existing ship inside of it like in a docking cradle; if mother ship is focused, can issue a command to make it open or close docking doors, and press a key to make the child ship leave/detach

add a new State mode, where it's a topdown view of space with ships, planets, stars, bases, asteroids

a working elevator inside a building that any human can use (npc civ, marine or pc/avatar)

transporter beam effect. humans can beam in/out of the colony surface, you see the transporter beam

simple circuits: a wire can exist, is on/off, can connect two things, like a power source and a power sink

headlights on the ship, can be on/off; when on it draws some "light beam" things (rays, wave semicircles)

quest/plot framework. command to show list of current unfinished quests

put some Civs inside the BaseHQ building (like passengers)

android about 5-10x high as a human; facing is toward the screen; red rectangle light eye moves back and forth horiz like a cylon, over time

a civ can be walking around inside a ship

horizontal movement command keys for focused ship

make random_ship traffic use a random variety of ship types, using Geometry and Ganymede types
    create 2 more generic Ship shape designs and use them for random sky traffic choices

when hit TAB it skips over Speech instances

every tick, there is a very very small chance that each AlienAdult will "say something", create will create a Speech with some garble like "ngggfth gfftik plagh!" and play audio chosen radomly from the ConditionZero/a* sets

create a green Alien saucer ship....it can have Aliens as passengers, rnd chance one will appear with moving down and orders to disembark once it lands... it might be one of the random traffic ships, it will be filled with 50 Alien adults and several eggs too

wherever human killed, put "blood" on the ground. it's a new Thing subclass. draws as short red line. maybe it expires after N ticks

a ship design where it has 4 landing legs, they come out at an angle, and they're not visible inside the ship hull when fully retracted

if marine/civ attacked by alien but survives, he is wounded; if wounded, he draws visibly different somehow. same thing for Aliens

very small chance every N ticks that Gian will lay an egg. it's a huge egg. when that Gigan-type egg hatches, it creates another Gigan!. the edge will appear to the left of the mother gigan.

when ship parked on ground, if close enough to a Refueler thing, it "connects" to ship, and will automaticaly incrementally (per tick) refuel the ship

ship that can have a shuttle or fighters docked with it, or inside it, and then press a command and it launches/releases them, and the reverse
    create one Ship class that does this as the POC

every N ticks, if the focused thing is a ship, and it is low on fuel, then game plays a "low fuel warning" sound

add key that's like TAB but only cycles between Ship instances

random chance each tick (rare) that this will happen: ship created in space that descends down to ground, extends landing gear ahead of time, lands, then disembarks it's passengers, who are N civs, then several ticks later this ship takes off, retracts gear, flies up off-screen and is deleted. the code that enables this would also allow me to issue a user command to my ship, telling it to disembark (while landed) it's passengers, in my case my ship contains N marines
    once this in effect, delete the code that randomly adds civs out of nowhere

when pass disembarks, play 1 each per passenger of the ConditionZero npc_step*.wav sounds

if ship landed, each tick is chance a nearby alien adult on ground may get inside the ship
    if alien adult inside ship, they can lay eggs

if hovering (in air, not landed, and no move_dir), that still burns 1 fuel each tick; if fuel 0 then start falling, can't hover

if hovering, draw small hovering plumes (only going down from ship bottom)

if 'landed' but landing gear not fully extended, then treat as a CRASH and damage/cripple ship!

if ship 'lands' (stops moving down because hit surface) and civs near ship feet, kill them

Marine can have orders to stand still -- not hunt or wander --- will attack aliens that get nearby

when Marine focused, you can issue commands telling him to Hunt, Wander, or GuardStay, or BoardNearestShip
    also issue these orders to a focused Civ: BoardNearestShip, Stay, Wander

command to order passengers to disembark
    command to reembark?

order civs into your ship as passengers (way to protect them from aliens on colony ground)

giant robot or giant monster/godzilla that can walk around (animate), and step on little civs and crush them

Thumpers - it can be stuck in the ground somewhere, when active, you see it animate up/down, and hear a 'thump-thump-thump' sound like heartbeat, when active, it attracts or repels a certain kind of monster/alien/creature (big sandworm comes on-screen from off?)

what some some Civs are PC's controlled by other humans. turn into client/server architecture, where a client can be on same machine or across the Internet, with each client controlled by a human who controls a single PC/avatar

I return from 1903.... She blinded me with science. Quotes from DBZ. code to make little NPC dialogue bubbles appear on the screen, above the character that said them, then they disappear after X ticks. "We're doomed!" "That's it. game over, man. Game over!" put in lots of cool quotes from sci-fi movies, TV and books.

kung fu fighing

adapt some of my stories and creative scenes to put into Aviron, add code & elements to reproduce them in-game... hairrising fight sceens, badass quotes.... VV/HH and his android assistants Bambi, Wendy Lisa, etc.

Help me, Richard. I'm lost somewhere beyond Jupiter. I think I'm dying. -- message from the character's wife
    some npc civ may randomly say, rarely, "My wife is lost beyond Jupiter!"

add a midium-giant robot (4x taller than a human) that is white with Red eyes, it is stationary but will kill any Aliens that get too close, zapping them with a red laser bolt. friend to humans

add Neomen. awesome human fighters ninja Jedi heroes for good, cool music plays when they fight. cool outfits. neon... blue good?

"If someone asks you if you're a deity... you say yes."

Speech: optional, draw a line to the source of speech (civ's head)

marine/civ may send distress signal, which may cause a ship to arrive later full of marines, which then lands and deploys the marines

add R2D2 like droid that wanders around... like a civ but diff

a little hovering robot camera thing that flies in a side-view octogon or diamond pattern, and shows a engine plume

Marine/Civ that survives being attacked by alien will become Wounded. if Wounded, a Red bloody indicator is drawn on his body somewhere

bar/restaurant sign outside building "BOOZ TITS ASS $$$$".... about 20 men dropping from sky with parachutes, when reach ground, parachuts go away and they're just Marines walking around....... a shuttle flies across the sky...random, several, diff numbers and colors every once ina while, to make sky look busy with ship traffic, variety of ship shapes/models

put in Stanley Opolis story

put in the Dragon's Story

make a KickStarter project. create a demo video. include cool music in the video, or playlist. maybe use some cool free music, like what I used for Adventureland in it, or that free cool scary song (?) that's like Coulton but not (go dig it up and confirm it's name, forgot offhand)

event where commandos descend from sky on ropes to cool music playing, then hit ground, and begin kicking butt and taking names

adjust code subtly so instead of giving commands to ship you give it to focused Captain/Pilot of the ship, and he in turn makes the ship do things.

a weapon may be on the ground; a civ near it may decided (randomly) to pick it up; if he has it, he can the attack aliens and has small chance of killing them; also if he has weapon, the chance of alien killing him goes down some

make too-old news messages be deleted (each after say 15 seconds)

cargo boxes stacked near building -- command to have them loaded/unload to ship; when cargo in ship, you visibily see it

command to toggle showing interior/exterior view of ship (whether to show innards (passnegers, cargo) or not)

when ship is parked on ground, cannot retract landing gear

add red strain lines to Gigan's eye ball

make Gigan's pupil randomly move around over time, maybe pay attention to interesting events in the world, like your ship moving up/down

google for some free online archive of vector/line-based art, like ships, creatures, stick figures, buildings, etc. that I could download and import/convert for use inside Aviron

find StarFront source and copy over the ship/structure definitions, and then write an importer/converter for use inside Aviron; all those ships ideally, def the stick figures

import some Overmind 3000 dialogue, find excuse to use it somewhere.... add an Evil AI Computer in the world? screen-with-eye-like-Paranoia? yellow with two black eyes like O3000?

refuel ship

command to tell landed ship to move weapons inside ship's cargo out onto the ground

variable speed movement (phased/pulsed based on current tock, borrow code from my other games like WarCommand or wherever I used it before)

diff possible game start scenariods, each with a diff world population, scenario has name and brief description, menu that let's user choose which to start with, shown right app start but before gameplay mode is began

can focus on multiple things; user input commands given to each of them

landing pad

experiment running Aviron in pdb. adjust app init to do a pygame Window instead of fullscreen mode

when marine selected, you can press key to make him throw grenade (if he has, finite supply per), it follows a curved path through air flying, then lands and explodes, damaging alinens nearby, maybe killing them depending on range and the alien's health

chance that a random 'traffic' ship may decide to land and disembark passengers

turret which will auto fire an energy ball at alien ships, or, must be manually fired (selected, issued a command to fire); energy ball is small red sphere, moves through air, once it gets close enough to alien ship it explodes, itself cceasing and damaging the nearby ship

mineral deposits under ground. diff types, each type diff color. rect filled.

mining robot. you can select and issue commands to make it tunnel/drill around underground

ladders

some ships, like Ganymede, can change its ext hull colors upon command

add plot hook framework, simple: first application is code that detects when the Ganymede lands and disembarks its marines, that satisfies a quest, when happens print to log and maybe popup a message

command that toggles, for selected thing, a display which shows the list of commands currently (in current state) handled by it (ex: for Ganymede, the keys to fly down/up, raise/lower legs, etc.)

random ship names for the random sky traffic

instead of all Marines moving to nearest Alien only on one side, ignoring aliens to other side, they'll split forces if makes sense and go in both directions

Rocky's Boots - the chip wire circuitry stuff
Robot Odyssey - robot submarines that you can customize and load firmware/circuits/chips into. sensors, effectors. propulsion. armor. weapons. cargo space.

variable speed (pulsed) movement (like from my 1st War Command game)

Bresenham's movement paths (like from my 1st War Command game)

ancient alien ruins

an original Tron light cycle can drive from off-screen, along the ground, into center screen. it looks like it as much as I can

if a ship is flying (eg. sky traffic) and runs out of fuel, it will fall and crash

bear trap

conveyor belt

that huge Orvo ship that is flying up at start, apparently fleeing colony, perhaps is filled w/100's of colonists?

"My name is Dr. Heinrich von Hexenhammer and I am a professional mad scientist. And part-time computer programmer. I hack systems and cast spells and sometimes try to take over the world. I mostly take naps. Long naps. Then wake up suddenly and pursue romantic interests and/or Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know. Afterwards, I lick my fur and take a nap again."

Inspirations, ideas, themes, homages:
Aliens, Battlestar Galactica, Star Trek, Star Wars, XCOM, LEGO, Minecraft, Lunar Lander, Sun Dog, Lemmings, Taipan, Lode Runner, Choplifter and 80's arcade games (Space Invaders, Missile Command, etc.), Awful Green Things From Outer Space
Rocky's Boots and A Robot Odyssey
Castle Wolfenstein - original
Spy vs Spy - Apple II

Find and explore the Ruins of Ryvogane V

Your presence is urgently requested on the moon Ganymedea

You wife is lost somewhere beyond Jupiter. Find her and restore her to life.

There is a bounty on your head in the X system. Try to clear your name.

You've been offered a lucrative and exclusive contract to deliver in-system a special cargo from the primary orbital station of planet X to the outermost planet.

when marines are fighting aliens, presumeably via shooting them with guns, there should be pew-pew sounds and visual effects

.......................

